The origins of Next.js.
Next.js is a framework
built on top of Reacts.
You might be asking yourself, why do we
need a framework on top of a framework?
React is already a framework,
what are we doing?
Well, if you've ever used React, you know
that it's not really a complete framework.
I kind of think of it
as like a view library,
where it just gives you some
really cool functions that
are disguised as HTML looking things
called JSX to build out a UI.
But you still have to
install your own router,
you still have to install your own state
management if you don't like hooks and
things like that, there's like Redux and
other state management lives.
So it's not like the full thing, right,
even though react supports server side
rendering, It doesn't give it to you, you
still got to set that up yourself, right?
So it's like,
eventually the community was like,
why do we have to set this
stuff up all the time?
So Next.js K, Next.js is like I was
gonna take all the conventions, and
our own opinions, and we're gonna put them
together in a framework on top of React.
So you don't have to figure out
what router you're gonna use and
keeping up with API and
then like what state management.
And then how to render statically,
or dynamically,
or the server on the client
will just give it all to you.
And then they're like,
well, why stop here?
How about we figure out how to let people
create API routes and things like that?
Let's just go full stack.
So it's a full stack
framework built on top
of React that basically bakes in
a bunch of opinions and conventions.
That the community is formed and their own
opinions that they work with the people at
the Google team,
the React team to kind of figure out,
let's just create a standard way
of making a full stack React app.
That way people don't have
to do it from scratch.
Because I mean, as you know, if you try
to sit down and make a full stack app
right now from scratch, I mean, you won't
even get to the actual product code.
Because you'll be so busy doing
the architecture code for forever,
like setting up a build system,
doing optimizations, doing this.
And then finally, you can like all right,
now I can get to the product
code after you set all this up.
So Next.js is kind of solve that so
you don't have to do it.
So when should you use Next.js?
Pretty much anytime you need
to make an app with React,
I would say it's because
jit ust how flexible it is,
it has different modes you can
render in as we'll talk about.
So it can handle small loads, big loads,
it's a very flexible application.
So I would say for the most part,
I exclusively use Next.js for
almost all my React projects.
I would say the only ones I don't are
obviously if I'm making a library that's
being published on NPM,
you don't use Next.js for that.
It's only meant for apps,
it's not meant for libraries,
you wanna make a component
live in Next.js.
And then maybe just like some one-off
small one-pager thing that I'm doing in
React that I probably could have
did in just Vanilla JavaScript.
So why am I using React
in the first place?
Other than that,
it's probably just Next.js.
I don't know if I'll ever just use
Vanilla React anymore in my opinion.
Any questions on that?
Yes,
>> Possibly off-topic, go as deep as you
want or whatever, but I'm typically, when
I think about React apps, I think of me
there as kind of the hybrid approach where
you have Django or rails or what have you.
Same host shoots over the JavaScript and
then just using you know surf tokens and
then the kind of second version where it's
just static JavaScript on like a CDN that
speaks over JSON.
In both cases, you'd say it's
Next.js still offers a bunch of,
it still offers substantial benefits,
so for
just key old React from the bottom up
>> Yeah, I think so, because Next.js uses,
it leverages a CDN depending
on where you deploy it.
If you deploy it on Versace, or
Net Laly,.or something like that,
it leverages the CDN just the same
way a static React app would.
And those pages can be cash and
things like that, and
you have more control over them.
So, and then you have the edge run time,
which is really cool, so
you get that benefit.
And then obviously, you get the full
stack, so you can have the APIs, but
maybe it adds a little overhead.
For instance, if you already have an API
built out in Python, or Rails, or
something, and
now you gotta make another full stack.
And Next.js and that API is talking to
your already API and Rails or Python,
maybe that extra network layer is
maybe just a little overhead and
people don't wanna manage it.
So I can see that being an issue where
it's like I don't really want to
maintain another server even
though it's serverless.
Well, in that case you just don't even
use the API routes in Next.js and
you can just use the pages and
the components and talk to your own API.
It still works out, so
I would say for the most cases, yes.
Yeah, because what's gonna happen if
you don't, especially on the team,
there's one of two things is gonna happen.
You're gonna have a meeting where some
architectures or some senior folks on
the team like, right, we gotta build
some stuff around React, right?
That's one thing if you're a good company.
If you're not a good company, what's gonna
happen is people are just gonna do it as
they go, and then no one's gonna know
what the hell's going on the app.
They're like, what's going on here?
And they're like, well,
talk to that person.
They don't work anymore,
and it's like, okay.
Don't touch that code is gonna be
like a comment on top of the file.
Don't touch this, because no one
knows what it does, but it works.
So this kind of avoids all that
because you're gonna build your own
framework, anyway.
Yeah, Mark.
>> Could you give your thoughts on remix
and potentially new stuff like Astro?
>> Yeah, so I actually don't have too
much experience with remix other than
just reading their documentation,
unfortunately.
So I don't have any opinions about it,
I just know that they aim to deliver
on some of the same things that Next.js
does as far as like building
out full stack applications.
From what I understand, I think they're
focused more on creating static
applications from the folks that own that.
But then again, I haven't really used it,
so I can't really comment on that, but
it seems promising,
maybe I should check it out.
But I tried to use it when it first came
out, I think it was like invite paid only,
or something like that.
And I was like, I don't wanna do this, but
I think it's open now, so I don't know,
maybe I'll check it out.
Astro is cool, I know a lot about Astro.
So Astro is,
I don't know what you would call it,
I don't even really call it a framework.
It's almost like a second architecture,
it's like free architecture basically.
It's like it's something that sits on
top of your framework to allow you to
create what's called like these dynamic
islands or is that Apple's thing?
I don't know, they call them
islands to an Astro, I believe.
That's also apples.
>> Do you call it Island.
>> Okay, I was like, wait,
did I just get confused with Apples thing?
Yeah, they call them Islands,
which basically it's just an optimization
on how you can render your
components sending less JavaScript to the
frontend, only streaming it when needed.
And it can just wrap all your framework.
So it's not so much that you would
only use Astro over React or
something like that as you
would use it together.
So it's just another
tool to optimize things.
There's always gonna be overlap,
the frameworks themselves have their
own optimization tools built in.
The platforms you deploy to have their
own optimization tools built in, and
you have something Astro that has
their own optimization tools built in.
So you kind of got to figure out
what's going to give you the best,
it really isn't like one solution
that's gonna work for everybody.
It all really depends on where
you deployed, who's on your team?
What framework you're using?
What version is it?
Who has access to it?
So they're all kind of shooting for
the same thing, so
that's my pain on that, yes.
>> Out of curiosity,
would it be possible to kind of isolate or
separate the frontend with the API side?
For example, say you want like the API is
used by many different services outside of
just the frontend.
And you wanna able to scale that,
is that possible with Next.js?
Or would you recommend using
a different API entirely for that case?
>> Right, so the question was can you
just forget about the frontend thing,
just make a backend and scale that out,
so you can use it with something else?
>> Yeah, so you have the frontend
that exists with the Next app and
the backend that you create with the
Next.js application like API routes and
stuff like that.
Say that those get used much more by other
services and the frontend still uses it,
but say you wanna scale that up
independently, is that a possibility?
>> Yeah, so in Next.js, those API handlers
were meant to be serverless handlers.
So technically, serverless scales as
long as you throw money at it, so
it'll go forever.
So I guess,
it really depends on where you deploy it.
If you deploy to Versailles, what
supports still service functions deployed
to nullify which supports
those service functions.
Then yeah, it should theoretically
just go as much as you need.
I haven't seen problems with it.
And it doesn't know or
care that the frontend that
it's bundled with is actually the client
that's asking for the resources.
So anything can hit it, whatever security
policies you have as far as like IP
addresses or whatever, it's totally fine,
it shouldn't be an issue.
So yeah, I don't think you're
gonna have a problem with that.
That's totally fine.
Although, if you want it more granular,
I don't know,
API configuration is probably better
to use like an API framework to do.
Because building a serverless,
It's definitely a lot different than not
building a service, especially with
the database you would have to pick.
You can't pick a database that
expects to be connected forever and
pulling the connections,
eventually you run out of connections.
So you've got to either solve that or
use a service database,
which might change how you build your app.
So there is a lot of decisions that
go into working on a service app.
Although there are a lot more options
today than there were when I was making
your service app like five years ago where
there was not a service database and
you had to figure it out.
So yeah, that's the way I think about it.